-: Welcome back.
In this section, we are going to understand about
Vertical Pod Autoscaler related auto scaling concept.
So Vertical Pod Autoscaler automatically adjust the
CPU and memory reservations for our Pods
to help right size our application deployed.
So, this adjustment can improve cluster resource utilization
and free up CPU and memory for other Pods.
So the main benefits include cluster nodes are
used efficiently because Pods use exactly what they need.
So Pods are scheduled onto nodes
that have the appropriate resources available.
And we don't have to run time consuming benchmarking
tasks to determine the correct values for CPU
and then memory requests.
So maintenance time is reduced
because the autoscaler can adjust CPU and then
memory requests over time without any action on our part.
So these are the very high level things
about Vertical Pod Autoscaler.
So moving on,
so we have three types of VPA components available,
which means VPA is not out of the box available
unlike HPA in the Kubernetes man, Kubernetes resources okay.
So VPA is an additional resource unit to
install that in your Kubernetes.
So as part of that installation, so we are going to
get three components from VPA site.
So VPA admission hook, VPA recommender,
and then VPA updater.
So VPA admission hook.
So what it is,
so every Pod submitted to the Kubernetes cluster goes
through this web hook automatically,
which checks whether a Vertical Pod Autoscaler object is
referencing this pod are one of its parents
like ReplicaSet deployment is referencing this information.
So if it is referencing then it moves onto the next step.
Okay, so what is VPA Recommender, right?
So VPA Recommender is nothing but it connects
to the metric server in the cluster and then fetches
historical and then current usage data, like CPU and memory,
for each VPA enabled Pod and generates recommendations
for scaling up or down the requests and limits
of those respective Pods.
So what does VPA updater do?
So it runs every one minute,
if a Pod is not running in the calculated recommendation
range, it evicts the it evicts the current currently
running version of that Pod so it can restart
and go through the VPA admission web hook
for that respective Pod, which will change the CPU
and memory settings for it before it can start.
So we are going to execute it now,
and then with HandsOn demo and then then see how it happens.
So we are going to put some load on our application
once we deploy and also write the VPA manifest
and then deploy it and then understand more
about when we put the load, how our CPU and memory resources
of our respective Pod increases automatically based on VPA
whatever we have configured we are going to look into.
So I'll see you in the next lecture.
Until then, bye bye.
Thank you.